hi everyone in this video is just going
to be a quick one this is a reply to a
friend on Facebook who has just sent me
a quick message saying any tips for a
wedding she that she's doing tomorrow
and it's it's for a friend and there's
no money involved so it's pretty casual
okay so my tips for the most basic
friends waiting you helping out dates
and photos are and first of all now say
is make sure that you get a full - of
every single guest that is that the foot
that is at the wedding and one of the
things I try and do is I try and get
people as they are coming out of the
waiting reception themselves or going
into the bit where they're having the
meal and or if I can't do that then I'll
get them when they're all around the
table or trying to be an example here so
just a simple one like before everyone
starts getting stuck into their food
I'll ask everyone at the table to
shuffle round for me with my super wide
angle lens which is usually the took
keen 11 to 16 mil and that means I've
got good enough depth of field here
whops unit F for six is the second and
I'm using flash as well that sort of
thing you can see the fact I'm using
flash because when this magnet magnetic
there's metallic wall you can see it
reflects it there but it's absolutely
fine shooting all in roll those I have
thing to do it just means that
afterwards what I can do is I can
quickly grab the brush increase the
exposure a little bit and just swipe it
over the people which are important or a
little bit in shade let's see it bring
them up and then bingo that's the people
which we want in the short sorted and
that means you haven't missed anyone in
the photo and that's always a good one
to add is like a whole bunch of shots at
the end of album or just for you know
see didn't miss any one another thing I
say is whenever you're shooting a lot of
the weddings is at half a dedicated
flash don't use your pop-up flash
because that always gives you a pretty
nerve-wracking light and and always
always bounce it off something I
generally do that but then I stick this
bit back in and I will war
friend taking photos like that bouncing
off the ceiling let's see if I can show
you any photos here so even here what so
this is a f 1.7 I'm using a little bit
of flash and some of these shots but I'm
trying to make it as subtle as possible
the flash is only a tiny little bit to
make sure that they're not totally in
darkness because I love the weddings can
be very dark the other thing I would say
is um white balance wise keep it warm
this wedding that I'm shooting was in
the pouring rain it was a horrible damp
overcast and rainy and windy day so for
the white balance I could rent about 500
Redbird 6000 and with that that gives a
place a lovely warm feeling to the shots
and by everyone looks nice and warm the
other thing is if you're shooting with
your camera I usually use spot metering
if I'm if it's on people's faces
especially it's indoors so for example
this location here you've got the rain
outside I don't want to see the rain
outside so I'm not using 3d matrix
metering I'm using spot metering and I'm
spot metering off the people's faces now
with a lot of Scottish wedding is quite
difficult because a lot of people are in
black so if you're even doing the center
with it well see the whole black inner
like a person suit like for example here
in the the suit and the junket of a
Scottish wedding it's very dark so again
I'm still spot metering off a head or
off a face rather than anything else and
in terms of ISO I'm working with the
d700 so I'm happily shooting all my
shots at 3200 I don't have any problem
with that at all
if usually with a crop sensor camera I
would say maybe go up to that if you
absolutely have to I always try and keep
it around about 2200 as you maximum or
try and bring a little bit more flash
really try and work the flash and the
ambient light together if you can which
means you're using a slower shutter
speed but still using flash I'll show
you some examples on the dance floor as
well so right on the dance floor you can
start playing around adding some
movement to your shots adding some blur
to your shots gives a much more of a
action-packed scene on the dance
so for example here it's just a simple
shot of them on the dance floor
nothing really moving nothing really
happening but later on let's see if I've
got any of the slightly more move tastic
shots so here it was a little bit of a
zoom and a flash so as you can see the
people in the background a little bit
blurry okay no bit blurry not really
probably gonna use that one I see yes so
twisting shots here okay a little bit
blurry but they're there okay enough as
you can see the people on the sides is
all kind of action happening around
there so feel confident to shoot what
was that that was a quarter of a second
photo so I'm taking photo and I'm
rotating it round and that's getting
them fairly sharper and everyone else in
the background see and like make sure
you get pictures of the grandparents
that are there and just all the guests
and everyone and what to do is follow
the bride and groom as much as possible
because they might be with belters and
all you need to do is be there and they
can turn around and go oh let's get a
full two in front of the if you're doing
it kind of photojournalistic rather than
let's do it stays short and obviously
with shooting in RAW you've got full
control over the white balance
afterwards because generally when you're
indoors and is the disco time the
lighting can be all over the place so
don't even touch JPEG and but what again
what we see is still keep it warm like
if I bring this down to you what the
heck would be the white bar so high bars
offer a dress it looks a bit dull you
don't really you don't want an accurate
white balance on this so here I would
definitely warm up okay I've got the
tint a little bit better so it's not in
the middle where there's kind of really
perfectly so there's obviously some
purple lights in the dance floor and
then a promising a little bit more
ability with the raw to change the
exposure afterwards and I said that
looks a little bit better there and also
feel for me to crop as much as you want
this is a wedding this is not like a
portrait headshot we've had time to set
things up you're just shooting it as you
would here I was just shooting with the
50 mil F 1.4 and they're shooting at F
1.7 still I was using flash so what I
would say is if you are shooting the way
try if you've got crop sensor camera the
Tamron 17 250f 2.8 would be a brilliant
lens for 90% of your shots when it's
indoors and it's dark gain a 1.4
whatever would be really good because
then you've got a great shallow depth of
field and you can still have faster
shutter speeds with good focus on the
actual subjects but yes it doesn't mean
things make sure you shoot every single
guest make sure you get some shots of
the party and and if you have to do and
if you want to do so it's a bit more
interesting here I was using off-camera
flash of shooting into an umbrella off
to the right as you can see we've got
nice soft shadows in the background
there and but that that's probably a
little bit more advanced I'll do that in
a future video saying they come absolute
basic minimums for a wedding but just if
this is you doing it for a mate and it's
just no money involved whatsoever
definitely first thing you need is an F
2.8 if your crop sensor camera the 1750
absolutely fantastic that'll cover
everything
those your flash as much as possible use
that I'll give a little bit of light
going forward but you mainly want the
light to be from everywhere else spot
meter off the people's faces not their
clothes and make sure you get all the
gas so that's my little tips for you
Isabelle
hope that helps Cheers